[docs] [migrate] Docs for YugabyteDB Voyager (#12820)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/preview/migrate/yb-voyager/yb-voyager-cli.md

---
title: YugabyteDB Voyager CLI
linkTitle: YugabyteDB Voyager CLI
description: YugabyteDB Voyager CLI and SSL connectivity.
beta: /preview/faq/general/#what-is-the-definition-of-the-beta-feature-tag
menu:
  preview:
    identifier: yb-voyager-cli
    parent: yb-voyager
    weight: 105
isTocNested: true
showAsideToc: true
---

> yb-voyager is a command line executable program that supports migrating databases from PostgreSQL, Oracle, and MySQL to a YugabyteDB database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
yb-voyager is a command line executable for migrating databases from PostgreSQL, Oracle, and MySQL to a YugabyteDB database.
```

## Syntax

```sh
yb_voyager [ <migration-phase>... ] [ <arguments> ... ]
```

- *migration-phase*: See [Migration phase](#migration-phase)
- *arguments*: See [Arguments](#arguments)

### Command line help

To display the available online help, run:

```sh
yb_voyager --help
```

### Migration phase

> The following command line options specify the migration phases.

Reviewer: I sort of feel like eventually this should be a proper command reference, with the syntax and all options etc, rather than just links to the instructions.

- [import data](/preview/migrate/yb-voyager/perform-migration/#import-data)

- [import data file](/preview/migrate/yb-voyager/perform-migration/#import-data-file)

### Arguments

#### --export-dir

Specifies the path to the directory containing the data files to export.

#### --source-db-type

Specifies the source database type (PostrgreSQL, Mysql or Oracle).

#### --source-db-host

Specifies the host name of the machine on which the source database server is running.

#### --source-db-user

Specifies the username of the source database.

#### --source-db-password

Specifies the password of the source database.

#### --source-db-name

Specifies the name of the source database.

#### --source-db-schema

Specifies the schema of the source database.

#### --output-format

Specifies the format in which the report file is generated. It can be in `html`, `txt`, `json` or `xml`.

#### --target-db-type

Specifies the target YugabyteDB database between [YugabyteDB](https://www.yugabyte.com/yugabytedb/), [YugabyteDB Anywhere](https://www.yugabyte.com/anywhere/) or [YugabyteDB Managed](https://www.yugabyte.com/managed/).

#### --target-db-host

> Specifies the host name of the machine on which target database server is running.

Reviewer 2: Specifies domain name or IP address of the machine...

#### --target-db-user

> Specifies the username of the source database.

Reviewer 2: Copy-paste error!

`username of the *target* database`

Same comment applies to `--target-db-password` and `--target-db-name` description.

#### --target-db-password

Specifies the password of the source database.

#### --target-db-name

Specifies the name of the source database.

#### –-data-dir

The path to the directory containing the data files to import.

#### --file-table-map

> Comma-separated mapping between the file in [data-dir](#–-data-dir) to the corresponding table in the database.

Reviewer: link broken

> Default : The file name in `table1_data.sql` format where `table1` name will be used as the table name.

Reviewer 2: This has changed. Now default is `.csv` files (instead of the `.sql` files).

By default, `yb-voyager import data file` command imports files (from the `--data-dir` directory) that match the `PREFIX_data.csv` pattern. The `PREFIX` part is considered as table-name into which the file is imported.

#### --delimiter

Default: “\t” (tab); can be changed to comma(,), pipe(|) or any other chanracter.

#### –-has-header

This argument is to be specified only for csv file type.

> Default: false, Change to true in case the csv file contains column names as a header.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Default: false; change to true if the csv file contains column names as a header.
```

## SSL Connectivity

> You can instruct yb-voyager to connect to the source or target database over an SSL connection. Connecting securely to one of these databases : PostgreSQL, MySQL, and YugabyteDB requires you to pass a similar set of arguments to the yb-voyager tool. Oracle, however, requires a different set of arguments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can instruct yb-voyager to connect to the source or target database over an SSL connection. Connecting securely to PostgreSQL, MySQL, and YugabyteDB requires you to pass a similar set of arguments to yb-voyager. Oracle requires a different set of arguments.
```

> The following table summarizes the arguments and options you can pass to the yb-voyager utility to establish an SSL connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table summarizes the arguments and options you can pass to yb-voyager to establish an SSL connection.
```

| Database | Arguments | Description |
| :------- | :------------ | :----------- |

> | PostgreSQL <br /> MySQL | `--source-ssl-mode`| Value of this argument determines whether an encrypted connection is established between yb-voyager and the database server; and whether the certificate of the database server is verified from a CA. <br /> **Options**<ul><li>disable: Only try a non-SSL connection.</li><li>allow: First try a non-SSL connection; if that fails, try an SSL connection. (Not supported for MySQL.)</li><li> prefer(default): First try an SSL connection; if that fails, try a non-SSL connection.</li><li>require: Only try an SSL connection. If a root CA file is present, verify the certificate in the same way as if verify-ca was specified.</li><li> verify-ca: Only try an SSL connection, and verify that the server certificate is issued by a trusted certificate authority (CA).</li><li>verify-full: Only try an SSL connection, verify that the server certificate is issued by a trusted CA and that the requested server host name matches that in the certificate.</li></ul> |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| PostgreSQL <br /> MySQL | `--source-ssl-mode`| Value of this argument determines whether an encrypted connection is established between yb-voyager and the database server; and whether the certificate of the database server is verified from a CA. <br /> **Options**<ul><li>disable: Only try a non-SSL connection.</li><li>allow: First try a non-SSL connection; if that fails, try an SSL connection. (Not supported for MySQL.)</li><li> prefer (default): First try an SSL connection; if that fails, try a non-SSL connection.</li><li>require: Only try an SSL connection. If a root CA file is present, verify the certificate in the same way as if verify-ca was specified.</li><li> verify-ca: Only try an SSL connection, and verify that the server certificate is issued by a trusted certificate authority (CA).</li><li>verify-full: Only try an SSL connection, verify that the server certificate is issued by a trusted CA and that the requested server host name matches that in the certificate.</li></ul> |
```

| | `--source-ssl-cert` <br /> `--source-ssl-key` | These two arguments specify names of the files containing SSL certificate and key, respectively. The `<cert, key>` pair forms the identity of the client. |

> | | `--source-ssl-root-cert` | This parameter specifies the path to a file containing SSL certificate authority (CA) certificate(s). If the file exists, the server's certificate will be verified to be signed by one of these authorities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| | `--source-ssl-root-cert` | Specifies the path to a file containing SSL certificate authority (CA) certificate(s). If the file exists, the server's certificate will be verified to be signed by one of these authorities.
```

> | | `--source-ssl-crl` | This parameter specifies the path to a file containing the SSL certificate revocation list (CRL). Certificates listed in this file, if it exists, will be rejected while attempting to authenticate the server's certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| | `--source-ssl-crl` | Specifies the path to a file containing the SSL certificate revocation list (CRL). Certificates listed in this file, if it exists, will be rejected while attempting to authenticate the server's certificate.
```

| Oracle | `--oracle-tns-alias` | A TNS alias that is configured to establish a secure connection with the server is passed to yb-voyager. When you pass this argument, you don't need to pass the `--source-db-host`, `--source-db-port`, and `--source-db-name` arguments to yb-voyager.|

> | YugabyteDB | `--target-ssl-mode` | Value of this argument determines whether an encrypted connection is established between yb-voyager and the database server; and whether the certificate of the database server is verified from a CA. <br /> **Options**<ul><li>disable: Only try a non-SSL connection.</li><li>allow: First try a non-SSL connection; if that fails, try an SSL connection. (Not supported for MySQL.)</li><li> prefer(default): First try an SSL connection; if that fails, try a non-SSL connection.</li><li>require: Only try an SSL connection. If a root CA file is present, verify the certificate in the same way as if verify-ca was specified.</li><li> verify-ca: Only try an SSL connection, and verify that the server certificate is issued by a trusted certificate authority (CA).</li><li>verify-full: Only try an SSL connection, verify that the server certificate is issued by a trusted CA and that the requested server host name matches that in the certificate.</li></ul>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| YugabyteDB | `--target-ssl-mode` | Value of this argument determines whether an encrypted connection is established between yb-voyager and the database server; and whether the certificate of the database server is verified from a CA. <br /> **Options**<ul><li>disable: Only try a non-SSL connection.</li><li>allow: First try a non-SSL connection; if that fails, try an SSL connection. (Not supported for MySQL.)</li><li> prefer (default): First try an SSL connection; if that fails, try a non-SSL connection.</li><li>require: Only try an SSL connection. If a root CA file is present, verify the certificate in the same way as if verify-ca was specified.</li><li> verify-ca: Only try an SSL connection, and verify that the server certificate is issued by a trusted certificate authority (CA).</li><li>verify-full: Only try an SSL connection, verify that the server certificate is issued by a trusted CA and that the requested server host name matches that in the certificate.</li></ul>
```

| | `--target-ssl-cert` <br /> `--target-ssl-key` | These two arguments specify names of the files containing SSL certificate and key, respectively. The `<cert, key>` pair forms the identity of the client. |

> | | `--target-ssl-root-cert` | This parameter specifies the path to a file containing SSL certificate authority (CA) certificate(s). If the file exists, the server's certificate will be verified to be signed by one of these authorities. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| | `--target-ssl-root-cert` | Specifies the path to a file containing SSL certificate authority (CA) certificate(s). If the file exists, the server's certificate will be verified to be signed by one of these authorities. |
```

> | | `--target-ssl-crl` | This parameter specifies the path to a file containing the SSL certificate revocation list (CRL). Certificates listed in this file, if it exists, will be rejected while attempting to authenticate the server's certificate. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| | `--target-ssl-crl` | Specifies the path to a file containing the SSL certificate revocation list (CRL). Certificates listed in this file, if it exists, will be rejected while attempting to authenticate the server's certificate. |
```

> {{< note title="Manual schema changes" >}}

Reviewer: Not sure why this is a note, and why it is here. Manual schema changes are discussed on another page.

Author: Done , added it to that section.

> - `CREATE INDEX CONCURRENTLY` : This feature is not supported yet in YugabyteDB. You should remove the `CONCURRENTLY` clause before trying to import the schema.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `CREATE INDEX CONCURRENTLY` is not currently supported in YugabyteDB. You should remove the `CONCURRENTLY` clause before trying to import the schema.
```

> - Include the primary key definition in the `CREATE TABLE` statement. Primary Key cannot be added to a partitioned table using the `ALTER TABLE` statement.

Author: Adding the note under the "Manual edit the schema" section.

---
title: yb-voyager CLI
linkTitle: yb-voyager CLI
description: YugabyteDB Voyager CLI and SSL connectivity.
beta: /preview/faq/general/#what-is-the-definition-of-the-beta-feature-tag
menu:
  preview:
    identifier: yb-voyager-cli
    parent: yb-voyager
    weight: 105
isTocNested: true
showAsideToc: true
---

yb-voyager is a command line executable for migrating databases from PostgreSQL, Oracle, and MySQL to a YugabyteDB database.

## Syntax

```sh
yb_voyager [ <migration-step>... ] [ <arguments> ... ]
```

- *migration-step*: See [Migration steps](#migration-steps)
- *arguments*: See [Arguments](#arguments)

### Command line help

To display the available online help, run:

```sh
yb_voyager --help
```

To display the available online help for any migration step, run:

```sh
yb_voyager [ <migration-step>... ] --help
```

> ### Migration steps

Reviewer: I'd bump up the heading level of this and Arguments; if you look at other CLI pages, commands and arguments aren't placed under syntax heading. Also, rename this simply "Commands" or somesuch - for the reference this isn't really the steps

#### Example

```sh
yb-voyager import schema --export-dir /path/to/yb/export/dir \
        --target-db-host hostname \
        --target-db-user username \
        --target-db-password password \
        --target-db-name dbname
```

### import data

Import the data objects to the target YugabyteDB.

#### Syntax

```sh
yb_voyager import data [ <arguments> ... ]
```

- *arguments*: See [Arguments](#arguments)

#### Example

```sh
yb-voyager import data --export-dir /path/to/yb/export/dir \
        --target-db-host hostname \
        --target-db-user username \
        --target-db-password password \
        --target-db-name dbname \
        --parallel-jobs connectionCount \
        --batch-size size
```

### import data file

Load all your data files in csv format directly to the target YugabyteDB.

#### Syntax

```sh
yb_voyager import data file [ <arguments> ... ]
```

- *arguments*: See [Arguments](#arguments)

#### Example

```sh
yb-voyager import data file --export-dir /path/to/yb/export/dir \
        --target-db-host hostname \
        --target-db-port port \
        --target-db-user username \
        --target-db-password password \
        --target-db-name dbname \

>         –-data-dir “/path/to/files/dir/” \

Reviewer 3: change the double quotes used: `"/path/to/files/dir/"` instead of `“/path/to/files/dir/”`
current quotes are identified as a character literal on linux terminal
similarly of `--file-table-map`

### --source-db-host

Specifies the domain name or IP address of the machine on which the source database server is running.

### --source-db-user

Specifies the username of the source database.

### --source-db-password

Specifies the password of the source database.

### --source-db-name

Specifies the name of the source database.

### --source-db-schema

Specifies the schema of the source database. Only applicable for Oracle.

### --output-format

Specifies the format in which the report file is generated. It can be in `html`, `txt`, `json` or `xml`.

### --target-db-host

Specifies the domain name or IP address of the machine on which target database server is running.

### --target-db-user

Specifies the username of the target database.

### --target-db-password

Specifies the password of the target database.

### --target-db-name

Specifies the name of the target database.

### --parallel-jobs

Specifies the count to increase the number of connections.

### --batch-size

Specifies the number of records that the Export directory can contain.

Default : 100,000

### –-data-dir

Path to the directory containing the data files to import.

### --file-table-map

> Comma-separated mapping between the file in [data-dir](#data-dir) to the corresponding table in the database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Comma-separated mapping between the files in [data-dir](#data-dir) to the corresponding table in the database.
```
